hey everyone I'm Sylvia Perez and in
this video I wanted to talk about
something near and dear to my heart
which is measuring the effectiveness of
your B2B advertising campaigns now this
is the start of a new series that I'm
experimenting with I'm calling it
advertising thoughts where a couple
times a month I'm going to jump on the
camera and just kind of rant and brain
dump different things that I'm thinking
about in a more casual way so that way I
can answer questions if you guys have
any q a or anything like that feel free
to drop them in the comments and I can
create a list of those questions and
then answer them in future videos so
let's talk about measuring the
effectiveness of your B2B advertising
campaigns right now we are in a down
economy for some companies in certain
industries it's more severe versus
others but I can tell you absolutely in
the martech space which is where I work
in budgets are being cut left and right
and where everyone is definitely feeling
this impact so I wanted to talk about
how are you approaching your measurement
because when things are tough everything
is getting an allies through a very fine
lens and if you don't have the proper
approach it's very simple for you to cut
things that are maybe not worth cutting
and leaving things going that aren't
necessarily worthwhile because
everything must contribute to the bottom
line in times like these now one of the
biggest mistakes that I see folks make
when it comes to measuring the
effectiveness of their B2B advertising
campaigns is they only rely on what they
can see in terms of a last touch
attribution now this is a huge mistake
obviously I think you know if you've if
you're active on LinkedIn you see this
every day talking about attributions
flawed Etc I do believe there is value
and attribution and you should be you
know measuring everything you possibly
can from a last touch basis a
multi-touch attribution model trying to
get all those different inputs and
insights absolutely you should and then
you can measure the effectiveness of
your channel in a dollar in dollar out
perspective especially for your demand
capture campaigns where you're trying to
drive direct response for demand
creation it gets harder because you're
not getting in that direct response and
this is also where it's really important
at the end of the day where how you
measure true success from your beauty
advertising campaigns and ultimately not
just B2B advertising but as a marketing
team should be based on the overall
efficiency the overall growth in terms
of source opportunities Source pipeline
Source Revenue that is ultimately what
you can live and die on so one of the
easiest things that you can do as a
marketing leader or as a demand manager
within a team is look at your total ad
spend
against all of your Blended inbound
metrics meaning all of your total Demo
requests that you have sourced inbound
all of your opportunities inbound that
you've sourced all of your Revenue that
you have sourced inbound and compare
that against your ad spend and that'll
give you this overall number this
overall efficiency across your marketing
team that will allow you that peace of
mind to understand are we moving the
ship in the right direction or do we
need to make changes because here's the
challenge
again going back to attributions flawed
tracking pixels are inaccurate
especially if you're measuring based on
the channel conversions there's so many
nuances that can go into not giving you
a perfect
source of Truth so if you just look at
an individual Channel level performance
and use that as your only indicator of
whether or not you're going to continue
to invest in a certain Channel I promise
you things break and it might be
premature and it also might not be
premature maybe your system is dialed in
and if that's the case great but for
most B2B advertising organizations where
the B2B buying process is not linear and
it can take up to three years at times
depending on the organization it's
oftentimes really misleading and really
tough to do so so if you're not already
if you take one thing from this video
start to look at your overall marketing
team in terms of Blended performance
total inbound Ops total pipeline total
Demo request and then your total ad
spend and take the difference between
the two and start to understand your
efficiency metrics across the different
stages and then yes take it a step
deeper and try to understand the
efficiency by Channel specifically for
like demand capture campaigns but once
you start to get outside side of just
demand capture and you start to focus on
demand creation and things that are not
as attributable it's going to become
even harder and more necessary for you
to take this holistic approach versus
just those individual line item and
analyzing everything from a you know a
dollar in dollar out perspective that
you can directly attribute so that is my
rant for this video I hope it was
helpful so if you take anything from
this please have a big holistic picture
right because at the end of the day if
you can go and you can look at your
performance across your team and
understand hey in terms of AD spend I've
invested twenty thousand dollars this
month in this new channel in this new
tactic and oh look at this our cost per
qualified demo is is down and our amount
of qualified demos is up well that is
very indicative of what you're doing is
working and you should keep doing more
of it and you know keep moving into that
path so by having that overall
you know Health scores uh essentially
you can use that as a leader and you can
go to your CEO you can go to the board
and you can paint that picture for them
and you can show them hey as a company
as a team overall we're moving in the
right direction and of course again yes
measure individual Channel performance
absolutely especially for your
conversion campaigns that are driving a
direct response definitely all day every
day but don't just use that as the only
thing for you to make the decision of
whether or not you're going to pull
budget back because if God forbid your
attribution was just awful maybe there
was something wrong with your tracking
or whatever the case might be maybe
something wrong with your lead routing
there's a million different variables
and you only use that as your source of
Truth you might cut something
prematurely and lo and behold this
happens all the time especially with
people who run a lot of brand awareness
campaigns especially things like YouTube
ads is because you can't get that Direct
version they cut the spend on YouTube
ads as an example and then they notice
overall
demo requests are down overall direct
traffic is now and because a lot of the
folks will see your ads they won't
directly convert they'll go look you up
on Google they'll come in as Google
organic they'll look you up directly
they'll come in as direct traffic right
and you're going to notice overall
performance just dips because you pulled
that spend prematurely so take that
holistic approach I am ranting but
that's kind of the point of this video
series so let me know if you got value
out of this video and if you have any
ideas any questions on things that you
would want answered from someone like
myself in terms of B2B advertising more
than happy to help and I will see you
next time alright take care